Supporting statement

Provide further explanation of the relevance of your experience and any other information in support of your application with direct reference to the advertisement and role profile.



I would be grateful if I could be considered for the position of Communications Officer, working on the Data Futures project. I understand how important this project is for HESA and I believe I have the skills and experience to succeed in this role. I have enjoyed a career break since October 2014 during which time my family and I relocated to Cheltenham and I have looked after my two young children. I am now looking forward to returning to the workplace and the Communications Officer position with HESA greatly appeals.



Experience in Communications

I have over ten years of experience in communications roles. In my most recent role as Associate Director of a leading political consultancy I liaised directly with clients, often at a senior level, providing advice on political strategy, and briefed the media on behalf of clients. Skilled at identifying the key points from complicated information and summarising information in an engaging format, in this role I led the production of research papers for non-specialist political audiences, including helping to draft a report on the implications of the UK’s position on GM foods. I am confident in my ability to use powerpoint and MS Office to produce engaging presentations and documents but I also enjoy finding new ways of presenting information, particularly using info-graphics and video where appropriate. 



As part of my role with the consultancy I led the research team and I developed a communications plan to strengthen the profile of the research and monitoring offer provided by the consultancy with existing and potential clients. I developed a theme for our communications activity - “Information Overload” - which we launched with a roundtable event with senior journalists and politicians. We also established a well-read blog and Twitter feed, as well as organising internal events. This activity led to a greater profile for our team and helped to build a following for our new political monitoring service, Intelex. 



In a previous role on the BBC Elections team, as the Data Researcher, I liaised on a daily basis with BBC journalists, providing complex electoral data in a digestible and useful format. This role in particular required a high level of accuracy and attention to detail. While at the BBC I was seconded to the BBC Weather Centre to work on the communications around the implementation of a new contract with the Met Office. This involved working with the senior management team of the BBC Weather Centre to build a plan to identify key stakeholders and implement a communications plan.



Interest in higher education and technology-driven organisations

I have long had an interest in education policy and I enjoyed working for the BBC’s education department for a period before joining the BBC News Election team. I am particularly interested in higher education policy and developed my knowledge of the sector in my previous consultancy role where I led on a new business brief for a higher education institution.  With greater competition in the sector and a focus on efficiency, I appreciate the higher education sector is under increased scrutiny. HESA clearly has a vital role in providing accurate data to support the work of UK governments and funding bodies, as well as providing a vital information resource for students and other key stakeholders.



I am very attracted by the prospect of working in a technology driven organisation. Conceiving and project managing the development of a new political monitoring tool, Intelex, in my previous role gave me a valuable insight into the challenges of successfully delivering an IT programme and an opportunity to develop my digital skills. I gained a particularly valuable insight into the importance of timely, accurate and digestible communications with stakeholders. I appreciate the HESA Data Futures programme is on a much larger scale but I do feel my experience provides me with the empathy an